[Music]
and like talk through issues and you
know it's it's just good for like kind
of building community like
cross-checking ideas and just you know
getting communication happening so we're
not so isolated and we're gonna do the
first one on the ten I've actually got
some good people who don't like got Mike
Joey
James Aaron Janice happy healthy vegan
Richard and so look it sounds delightful
it sounds totally positive I think if
you put it to a vote for whether or not
those people would let me join the vote
is gonna be no so I'm not complaining
but you know Aaron Janice hates my guts
she tried to get a video deleted on my
channel you know she did the full
copyright claim thing where YouTube then
asks her to prove that she has a court
case against me there's more than one
way to complain against the video but
she made the copyright route the legal
copyright claim and then you know it
ended when Google said to her okay you
have 30 days to show paperwork that you
actually have legitimate legal conflict
with this guy and then 30 days elapse so
Aaron Janis hates my guts I think most
of other people hate my guts
you know Mike and I chatted a little bit
recently here on your discord and we
seem to get along fine so that was uh
was a nice change of pace but you know
yeah well I'm glad to hear he doesn't
hate my guts cuz you know he and I
disagree just to go to marijuana brain
damage goes with marijuana in the past
but I think I know I don't know if you
if you are having a little democracy I
don't know if it's put to a vote who
gets the joining doesn't but I am
completely confident that if it is put
to a vote I would be excluded so oh I
mean the whole idea is what I want is
for it to grow and then oh time for it
to get to a point that we can get like
you know anyone who's really out there
like kind of having an impact talking
you know and ideally like I'd be
thinking of people who are like we're
really like having some serious impact I
don't really count myself like among
them like I got way less views than all
those people I just was the one who had
the idea to
that's it but yeah be cool to like
expand out who comes and then if it gets
to a point through you know just able to
get a bunch of people and then abs do it
but I think on the first one I certainly
don't want risk some like massive
[ __ ] conflict or something well you
you know I'm fairly genteel the thing I
just respond to there is you know
numbers numbers you also have to look at
depth Isaac so means someone like you or
someone like me the number of viewers
you have is differing from the depth of
influence and engagement you have on
them because like supreme banana gets
more views than you but I don't think
supreme bananas self published book of
poetry has the impact on people's lives
that your content does nor that my
contact does and I you know I get emails
I get most people at all ages like some
of them are in their 50s and 60s and
some of them are teenagers saying wow
you know your YouTube channel really
made me you know take on a new
perspective on life or whatever it was
so that's all I'd say is you know I
don't think I mean if you're reaching
people in a really deep and meaningful
way then I don't think 500 is a small
number I think that's really meaningful
and the other hand if it's if it's that
shallow as a lot of this stuff is a lot
of it's just cheerleading to the crowd
you know it's telling people things they
already want to hear whether it's about
the vegan movement or the lifestyle or
what have you that I don't really think
we're reaching 50 thousand people is all
that significant or meaningful yeah well
I don't know for me I was thinking
people who everyone watches together for
conversation
it's just something vegans would want to
see like surely the people who are fans
of both like just to take two examples
like James and Mike would just be
curious what happened if you put them in
a room together
like what do these guys have to say to
each other you know I mean there's other
reasons too like I think that like do
you surely you agree it would be good if
there was communication of course
ya know what I've been trying to foster
that for years and that was that was
part of the basis of durianrider
attacking me I'll come back back on that
but I was trying to fill those those
nice four years equal whatever five
years but you know I just wonder would
you give them a subject like for example
would you say to them palm oil disgust
or secondhand levity is that the idea or
is you to bring
together do you talk about things that
are currently happening in the news like
news about the begin movement or just
free commitment this was my idea for how
to do it well I think start because when
you don't have people it's good like I
mean I know these people but they don't
know each other so I think that good to
have some kind of like stuff on the
table already to talk about so we don't
have to make conversation from scratch
just makes it easier and I was thinking
every just do BYOD bring your own topic
and everyone can just bring one thing
and it can be about you know it could be
anything to be a current event like you
just suggested it could be politics
about environment ethics activism you
know vegan products feel like it could
be literally anything vegan related and
everyone can just bring a topic and just
chat through them as a group you know
there's still some time to program at
the end then you know take some
questions and I think that would be good
I think people would just really
appreciate it totally agree totally
great totally positive so just to come
back to the issue of beat me networking
with other vegans which again I did four
years you know the experience I had with
during my tour it's not unique other
people so get burn that way we're like
so to give an example you may not
remember her there was a very popular
YouTube channel called the vegan lass
and she deleted all of her stuff she was
a severe anorexic so she had been
hospitalized she was really dying from
the effects of antibiotics to shed organ
organ damage internal organ demo so just
say so she was not she was not a little
bit interacted she was when this bill
went all the way where she was she was
almost dead and frankly she still has
very serious health problems but in when
she became an ethical vegan and got
engaged stuff so but she was she was in
and out of hospital at the time and I
think she was 25 she was not a young
young person and I was talking to her
obviously I was talking about you know
what's going on in the vegan movement
and what's going on with her you know we
had started talking and even that during
are you used that to condemn me as if I
only think you said I was trying to
socially that I did let go once seduce
her and have sex with her she lives in
Scotland and I was living in bridge yeah
and like again like I'm like she and I
laughed about it together too
she was because you know at that time
she was like oh he had the first two
people he accused you of like seducing
him proper crime one of them was a
severe anorexia
and the other one was severely obese
it's like you know you can't read it but
never worth living on opposite sides of
the world like you know like it that
these but the the way in which
durianrider and vegan cheat and other
people they used any kind of connection
between people to vilify everyone and
that's still going on with someone like
Noor vegan
I just got threatening email from Noor
vegan yesterday day before yesterday for
several days in a row we're like you
know he wants to take the fact that I
said something to somebody on Instagram
and make it into you know a way to
denounce it defaming so there was for a
period of like more than two years
the initial positivity about
collaboration really bled out of the
movement that way and then I guess the
only other thing to note is really the
you know the Gary Yourofsky effect so
you're not old enough just in terms your
veganism to remember like the peak of
gary yourofsky's influence but Gary you
got involved like one year after that
not a long time after that but you know
Gary Yourofsky he also really
popularized this very militants in your
face confrontational way of doing things
which is now out of style it's already
faded out but that also made cooperation
I think very difficult because ever
wanted to pretend that they had like
absolute certainty and absolute faith
and that they you know they were just
there to scream at journalists and you
know say to journalists you know you're
a murderer and stuff you know so that
also I think created a kind of toxic
environment but that's my that's my
general background why like the question
is why isn't this happened already you
know why is your idea why haven't ten
people done it already I think that's
that's kind of the background I think I
think that I have a big answer to that
so I think that the people who are
running the big channels don't they I
mean they just don't have much of a
desire to like reach out to each other
they're just working on their stuff they
have other things gratifying them and so
at the top of their list priorities and
then anyone else would want to set it up
usually just doesn't have kind of like
the connections basically but for me at
this point it's like I talked to mostly
people so I can just you know just send
them a message hey I had this idea if
these people come do you want to come to
you and you know so I just I'm kind of
like just privileged to be in a spot
where I can kind of make that happen so
that's a I'm a little bit more cynical
okay Mexi Mexi could have made this
happen Mexi is a communist and not a
software company the hardcore communist
and I think Mexi is very uncomfortable
with her own body now for Mexi to even
do a podcast with a very physical health
centered person like somebody who's into
bodybuilding male or female you know
someone whose form of vegan activism is
more about health and beauty that would
already be very difficult for her to do
a podcast with someone who's basically a
kind of Capitol Esther said someone who
votes for the Democrat Party someone who
likes Bill Clinton someone's a moderate
leftist is already very difficult so I
mean I think like Mexi completely could
have done this still now
she could do this but she hasn't and she
won't because of how brittle and narrow
the division in veganism are and the
last time you and I talked about this
idea which is like two and a half years
ago I pointed to I said then I remember
the first times that I said well it's a
good idea but the reality is I can't
really be at the same table with Cory
McCarthy that was the example I used or
um there was one other guy gives an
example of far right where you can you
can make up your own example but you
know like there's some limit to how
broad the table can be but on the other
hand is you know I did make a big effort
over years and years to sit at the same
table with people I disagreed with you
know in all kinds of ways including even
Maude vegan you know yeah well look I
don't I don't know about Mexican I feel
like talk to watch your content I know
she loved you know communist yeah I
don't I don't know I mean I'd be happy
to go on though like honestly for me I'm
not thinking some people's views like to
the extent that they want to discuss any
particular thing that's great like I'm
I'm just thinking about the angle like
would be good to just get the community
talking like I just I think that
completely agree completely right now
there's just doors that conversation
opens up that aren't and and not to
mention like I shouldn't downplay just
just fun to have these conversations
people like watching stuff like this
well I think you were here
when I asked Mike so this is Mike
meaning like the vegan I asked Mike as
he lives out in the middle of nowhere in
Iowa I said Mike do you know like any
vegans in real life within like 30
kilometers really probably at 30 miles
cuz he's American but cuz you know he
lives in the middle of what the woods in
in Iowa and he immediately said like oh
yeah yeah he knows like like 15 or more
vegans within a short distance of him
that is itself kind of amazing but you
know those conversations and when I was
in Vancouver Vancouver that's supposed
to be a major major center for vegan
activism there were like two vegans and
all of Vancouver who would even talk to
me and again a lot of it is like Mexi
you know I don't mean specifically
exactly mexi's ideology but there are
people who are adherents to different
very narrow very brittle ideologies and
they won't talk to anyone who's from
outside of their ideology so that's
that's a lot of what I've seen going on
in Canada and in the places I've lived
in real life so but I I agree with you
you know part of the solution is just
getting people together to talk and find
common ground and you know again I think
one like the vegan talked to me he got
the impression that I'm not insane you
know whatever yeah I don't think he
thinks you're insane I mean like a
Mormon scene in a charming way okay well
that speaks to another kind of goal that
I have so a lot of in fact I guess a
bunch of what I do is like trying to get
the ball conversations so this is an
example of trying to get conversations
happening with kind of like the
figureheads but I also want to make
conversation happen on like smaller
levels the discord does walk that right
and speaking of Mike like he's been in
here doing some debates recently he's
gonna do one with this guy Dolan I'm
just gonna be pretty funny Dolan is like
the debate champion from Frank Tufano
server so by like you know actual
standards of anyone who knows about like
philosophy or logic that's like the
equivalent of like a low mid tier
debater but like Frank Tufano server
that's like the debate champion anyway
he's gonna debate mics I'll be so
broader point was just I want to get
more stuff like that happening and I
would get a lot of people in here anyone
especially who has presence on the
internet who wants debate here that's
great because that draws attention to
this and just just make it a Matt
Hubbs conversations on veganism because
I don't really know of anywhere where
there's like just a huge hub where you
can have like conversations there's some
rims but forums are very slow good thing
and they attract a very specific kind of
like person like well they're like I
mean it's good to I have what I wanted
was like real-time conversations where
like the whole public can come in and
just engage in these like big discourses
about veganism I think that'd be really
good
well the other thing that's very strange
about YouTube as a platform for activism
because you and I actually grew this we
don't really regard YouTube as activism
in itself but it's something that can
lead to activism it's something that can
be you know a catalyst for activism or
we can philosophize about activism I do
think you can do you to back to them I
don't think that's what I do but I think
you can do it it's a current concept
yeah okay you know I think I think we
agree on that it's just I remember you
debating that with well not not really
formally debate
mmm are you talking about it with Paul
Bashir where Paul Bashir was like super
optimistic that like what you do on
YouTube is act is like legitimate
activism and you were like no I don't
really think you know I really think the
debate chamber is activism per se so
remember you had a conversation about it
from that that angle like I I don't
really make content with the intent of
like directly persuading carnist it's
like yes what I hope to put out is like
a clear philosophical picture of
veganism that other you know once a
activist but then a sure that people who
are activists and just other vegans can
take and then make use of for their own
so example like just the average you
know street activist who works with a V
right like they're just gonna be having
a bunch of conversations on the street
it's helpful for person like that to
have a clear philosophical like a model
of their of the topic right I think that
that will help them navigate those
conversations they don't have to talk
like like I talk but help them navigate
and I think that that's kind of my goal
is to provide clarity it's almost like
content for other vegans like I'd like
help other vegans get a clearer
philosophical picture I I agree I think
both your channel and my channel have
been catalysts in that way because I
remember just five years ago where the
main line of reasoning on veganism was
animals have souls
you know puppies are cute piglets are
cute you know they're like that was like
the mean approach and street activism
and on YouTube burn and everything else
was this very woolly you know eliciting
sympathy basis but which of course is
gonna work sometimes it has enough of a
success rate that people start to
believe in it but you know
philosophically it's not rigorous and
when they really were not equipped or
prepared to deal with a lot of the
objections that meat eaters head and you
know some of those objections are
insincere but some of them are sincere
or so you know they say back well what
about killing rats you know you've heard
all the arguments many times so I do
think that's a meaningful thing in terms
of preparing the groundwork for veganism
as a philosophy and veganism is a
political movement to really talk
through contradictions and shortcomings
and be mentally and intellectually as
well as emotionally well I was gonna say
Oh coming back to the basic premise of
this kind of form this kind of
conversation I know this happened to you
in your first year on YouTube a lot
maybe it happens less now the single
biggest obstacle I encountered the
single biggest obstacle to cooperating
with other vegans I mean on the Internet
is this they say well I've never really
watched any of your videos but would
they have a negative opinion basically
of you that is not even based on
watching a 10-minute YouTube video which
is the easiest thing to do so that's the
other reality of conversations is
breaking down those barriers it's like
you know indeed that was my problem with
with footsoldier he had this opinion of
me that was based on like what
durianrider and freely said about me I
remember he was actually there in
Shanghai talking to people face-to-face
so it's like this is the most porous
medium like I'm not even asking you to
go and read an article of written like
you can casually listen to what my
approach to veganism is while washing
the dishes is a YouTube video but where
people wouldn't even do that they judge
you really harshly and really negatively
maybe literally based on something
insulting that was said about you on
reddit
or on a comment on an Instagram photo
like and like and that is it where
that's like the hope so again in terms
of the ideological fragility and
brittleness of the players in the game
you know like I have to even like the
people have been the worst people to be
in the movement sometimes I have to turn
around and praise them as the best and
be like well at least at least they were
going to watch on my videos or at least
they're willing to talk to me for like
15 minutes before they decided to hate
me and condemn me because there's like
it's that level of backstabbing tends to
be kind of normal even before they've
seen one of your videos I can't say I've
dealt with that people who I've had like
really like prejudge me unfairly are
like intersectional vegan some of whom
are just like absolute cancer just the
kind of people say like oh you're racist
you're bigoted la blah blah blah know
what no citation of you've said annexed
explanation of why it's problematic like
I tried to do an event in Toronto with
AV because they request to come talk at
a fundraiser and there's actually like
crazy social justice work threatened to
protest it and eventually got canceled
then AV kind of like regulated on it and
I got hub reinstated and then they
escalated there they're like threats of
protests and be a whole event the
fundraiser actually got shut down Wow
what did you guys just achieve you've
got a logic shop shut down along with a
fundraiser because you don't like
someone participating based on something
that you can't even a particularly so
you you know this but you've probably
just forgotten because it was it was a
while ago but you know I was completely
banned from all AV events with no
explanation there was no allegation of
racism or anything oh there was no
reason ever so I was shut out of AV in
Victoria Canada and in Vancouver Canada
and I was able to talk to people who
were higher level organizers in the
organization and all they could say to
me was it's just as stupid and petty
as like high school cliques for who's
cool like they they had no explanation
no excuse and they're like no that's
just how it is
like somebody in a Facebook group said
something bad about your sex life and
now you're banned and that's it like and
that's the way their whole organization
works so like if you say this to me like
I've got to say like I have a like in a
sense I have no sympathy because it's
like well like this whole organization
is is is built on this kind of [ __ ]
again I of course because I had that
experience myself other people wrote in
and told me about their negative
experiences I I think I have a sense of
a crop the cross-section of what goes
wrong with a P but like again this work
this reflects a broader problem for
veganism it's a moment justjust to be
clear like I'm not really saying that av
did anything in fact I'm not like AV
offered to AB me for an event they
canceled under pressure but that was
just a local matter that wasn't like the
higher-ups in fact the higher-ups were
the one tried to fix the situation and
get me reinstated but then eventually
enough pressure and the whole thing kind
of like exploded so my complaint there
is about these like just radical like
left ideologues do you have in there
who've just they're just lunatics they
just think you're racist and sexist and
they have no other that's just cancer we
just don't need that it's unhelpful
right but in my case but in my case what
is the basis for banning me like you
know within veganism nobody said within
it so but it's it's there are no
allegations of racism no allegations of
sexism the case for banning me is like I
guess I have a slightly controversial
position on pet food you know I do think
vegans should refuse to buy like dog
food or cat food that's made out of meat
but like it's this kind of thing but
even that is too too provocative to be
tolerated within the moment so I just
say this this reflects the brittleness
and the way in which you know what's
already a tiny movement whittles itself
down smaller and smaller
[Music]